a few things
1.  let's use the signal protocol via a Rust's signal lib.
2.  I want there to be separation between the user's human identity and their communication.  Let's lay this out so that one user can have multiple personas, each persona has a home community and can be a member of multiple other communities.  We'll need a way to link personas so that people can't vote more than once with different personas, but however we do that shouldn't link back to the user.  (we don't want an administer to be able to identify which users are communicating as that would be an avenue for censorship)
2.  For human verification we have three avenues: a) email and text message verification, b) id verification, c) human verification.  Human verification happens when one user invites another to their community.  This should only be possible via QR code (which we'll use for the initial key exchange and optionally for key rotation (but we'll need an over the wire method for key rotation as well)).  On first contact we should verify the location of both users is within 1 mile of each other before allowing the connection.  This will prevent bots because bots don't go places and meet people.  When a user is invited to a community, the inviting user is taking responsibility for them.  Each human validation step increases a user's trust score and each violation of rules decreases it.  An inviting user should share some of the decrease for an invitee's violations.  a trust score of 0 is an automatic ban.  the effects of violations should decrease over time, so a user can recover if they behave well.
3.  we can use activity pub for post shape and support interoperability for public feeds, but we should have our own protocol.  For starters it should be realtime across servers with better consistency guarantees than activity pub offers (WAL for outgoing traffic, atleastonce delivery semantics with deduplication, push and not pull for new messages).  
4.  names should also be encrypted, of personas, communities and feeds.
5.  One server should be able to support any number of communities, users should be able to join communities on different servers.  We'll likely have fewer servers than the current fediverse, but more communities.
6.  End to end encryption will be tricky with live view.  Let's make a react SPA instead